---
title: Re-reading the Encyclopedia
layout: post
---
My aunt, Melinda Bush, is developmentally disabled.  She is intelligent, but not fully independent.  She has a variety of psychological disorders, one of which is Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder.  One symptom of OCD is the tendency to follow routines---routines that become very difficult to break.

<!-- -**-END-**- -->
My aunt's most obvious routine is reading the encyclopedia.

She prefers the CD and DVD versions of encyclopedias.  The sole purpose of her computer is to read these encyclopedias.  Notice encyclopedias is plural - one part of her routine is she must have a new one every year for Christmas.  And every year for Christmas she gets a new Britannica or Groliers or Comptons or Encarta or Worldbook - whatever she wants that year - and every year she reads them.  From the beginning.

It takes a while to get through those articles.  I think in a year she gets to around the mid-Cs.

And then the next year, she starts over.

My mother, her legal guardian, has suggestied on multiple occasions that maybe she just pick up where she left off.  Perhaps keep the 2008 Encarta and pick up at Dauchshunds instead of beginning again with 2009 Britannica.  But no, she says, she'll have the new one.

My aunt is an expert on aardvarks, airplanes, and Bejing.  If there were an A-C edition of Jeopardy, she could .  Ask her about the Geneva Conventions though and she'll be at a loss recollecting her high school history classes (some forty years ago).

(This is an adaptation of an email I wrote in 2009 to [AJ Jacobs](http://www.ajjacobs.com/content/home.asp) after hearing 
about his book [*The Know-it-All*](http://www.ajjacobs.com/books/kia.asp).)
